Monthly Reports - David Botton

--------------------
--  December 2004 --
--------------------

GNAV IDE

December has been a very productive month. The GNAVI IDE now has
(although in a fairly difficult to use sense) all the features of a
basic Delphi / VB like environment placing of controls, setting
properties, setting and modifying handlers and graphical layout of of
control positions and sizes. Clearly the next stage will be to bring
together the outline and layout views in to something that is easier
to use, work out bugs and enhance the IDE as a whole, but we are very
close to a the base of a 1.0 (for the 1.0 itself there still needs to
be flesh out of the remaining controls and working in Database control
support).

I've already been using the IDE to develop some small applications now
and its potential is HUGE!


GWindows

December has been seen GWindows get some real input from other
developers. A number of packages came in by e-mail (once the (c)
issues are worked out they will be worked in) and of course Stephen
Leake's additions (testing, packing_boxes, etc. see he report). More
bug fixes and a little re-org. by adding GControls


GNATCOM

Nothing to add


Cross platform GWindows

I've been doing some experiments with the use of Tk as a potential
port and so far so good. It has the advantage of using native widgets
on OS X, Windows and of course works well on Linux/Unix.


The GNAVI Project

I am adding a new directory where people at their option can record
their monthly progress in one place in addition to posting here. In
December we reached a decision about (c) assignment documents and
continue work and further spec. of the coding standards.


-------------------
-- November 2004 --
-------------------

GNAVI IDE

As can be seen, the majority of my time on the GNAVI project this
month has focused on the new GNAVI IDE. I am very pleased with the
direction and progress. I only wish I had more time and it looks like
I will starting in January. I am looking forward to great things
happening :-)

So up to now, I've got a fully working RAD environment that uses an
Outline view for doing the GUI building. This is not the ideal
situation for reaching the Delphi/VB crowed, but it is an excellent
way of working with Panels and Packing boxes a better way of creating
GUI screens in many but not all situations. Of course there is still a
huge amount more to go (but I always see the final product in my eye
as being so close which is good advice to give to any one interested
in hacking out products, enjoy the road and envision how cool the end
is going to be, but never dwell on the length of the path), but the
fact that there is something written in GNAVI itself that can be
worked on with the product itself makes this all very exciting.

I always like to dream so I am already thinking about how to integrate
a system of associating use cases with development stages and CVS with
Requirement Traceability Matrix generation and stuff like that on the
long term. The idea would be to have sort of very fluid system that
allowed for automatic documenting hacking just as much as keeping to
specs. I look forward to some active brainstorming on this in the
months ahead.

GWindows

There has already been some work on additions, fixes and
improvements. As I continue to develop the IDE expect more to come. I
am very tempted to do some reorganizing of certain parts of GWindows
and will send out another e-mail to get a read on how people feel
about this, but up to now I should not have broken anyones code.

GNATCOM

No changes yet, but not forgotten. Does any one know if the
"interfaces" part of Ada 2005 have made there way in to the more
recent GCC GNAT's yet? I'd be interested in seeing if the
implementation is going to follow through using the traditional GCC
C++ virtual table model or the MS style of vtables used by COM specs.

GWindows OS X / GWindows GTK

I have not spent too much time on any developments in this space over
the last week, but I will get back to it. Although I did add the MySQL
bindings that will make there way in time also on the Win32 version. I
have though started a bit on the GTK version by at least getting the
base files in order. I am strongly considering doing the GTK version
as a an A# version using the GTK for .NET / Mono instead of going
through GtkAda. This has may strong advantages.

CVS

CVS has been a pleasure so far. I must admit I should have been using
this earlier.

The GNAVI Project

I've added some testimonials and am still working on a future push. I
am going to wait until I've got the working layout view and at least
the basic kinks out of the system before starting to leak out the Open
Source Alternative to Delphi and VB to the world.


------------------
-- October 2004 --
------------------

GNAVI IDE

I've had some time to collect my thoughts and most of them I've
already posted and made available on the list, in cvs and on the web
as well. I'd like to know if Jerry and others that started looking to
the GUI builder side of things have come up with any direction they
imagine for that end of the project.

The ICG as I call it, the Interactive Code Generator (see
http://www.gnavi.org/source/gnavi_project/gnavi_inside_notes.txt), is
in my head now and I hope to start this week on putting it in to the
computer (unless I hear from others their thoughts that sway things in
another direction).


GWindows Release

I received an update to gwindows_extended from Frank Piron, so I am
going to add that in to the contrib and then release.


GWindows OSX / GTK

This and the GTK port / re-implementations are not really in the scope
of the GNAVI project per se at this point, but are ideas that I hope
to slowly cultivate. As mentioned the goal is not for GWindows to stop
being a Win32 "binding" but rather, just like MFC was put out for Mac
Classic, it would be nice to have the same on OS X and GTK in the long
run.

A while back I had parts of GWindows running on Linux using Wine
libs. That would also make for a cool project if some one out there is
interested.


GNATCOM

Since ACT no longer carries GNATCOM as a product, I've released the
head (ie. the developer release) as the current release of GNATCOM


CVS

I've more or less got most things in CVS as this point. I hope to
stick in to gnavi_project tid bits that seem important to us as a
whole.


GNAVI Project

Sent out a bunch of e-mails hoping that it inspires us towards
creative individual but team oriented exploration and implementation


Marketing

While premature, I've been dreaming about how to SPAM the Delphi and
VB people some day with "Now you are a VB guy, tomorrow you can be a
GNAVI Engineer :-)"


Project Tools

There are a number of tools/web forms I've thought about for the
project as a whole for org purposes. I hope to pursue them in the
future. Those people interested in being involved in GNAVI don't just
have to be coding parts of GNAVI, there is more to a project than the
product!


